Doc about regression investigation. (#17850)
google/jax: docs/investigating_a_regression.md

(investigating-a-regression)=
# Investigating a regression

So you updated JAX and you hit a speed regression?
You have a little bit of time and are ready to investigate this?
Let's first make a JAX issue.

> But if you can pinpoint the commit that trigger the regression, it will really help us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But if you can pinpoint the commit that triggered the regression, it will really help us.
```

> This document explains how we identified the commit that cause a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document explains how we identified the commit that caused a
```

> [15% preformance regression](https://github.com/google/jax/issues/17686).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[15% performance regression](https://github.com/google/jax/issues/17686).
```

## Steps

> This can be done easily if the repro is quick enough. This is a brute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be done easily if the reproducer is quick enough. This is a brute
```

> force method and not a bisection, but if the repro is quick enough, it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
force method and not a bisection, but if the reproducer is quick enough, it
```

> works well. This make sure that you always test XLA and JAX commit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
works well. This makes sure that you always test XLA and JAX commits
```

> that are compatible. It also limit XLA recompilation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that are compatible. It also limits XLA recompilation.
```

> Here is a suggested investigation steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a suggested investigation strategy:
```

 1. You can do a brute force test of nightly containers between the 2 releases.
 2. Hourly recompilation while keeping XLA and JAX in sync.
 3. Final verification: maybe a manual check of a few commits (or a git bisect).

## Nightly investigation.

This can be done by using [JAX-Toolbox nightly
containers](https://github.com/NVIDIA/JAX-Toolbox).

> - Some days, bugs prevent the container to be build or could have temporary regression. Just discard those days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Some days, bugs prevent the container from being built, or there are temporary regressions. Just discard those days.
```

- So you should end up with a specific day or a few days where the regression happens.

> - To automatize this, you need 2 python scripts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To automate this, you need 2 python scripts:
```

    - test_runner.sh: will start the containers and the test.

>     - test.sh: will install missing dependency and run the test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - test.sh: will install missing dependencies and run the test
```

> Here are real examples scripts used for the issue: https://github.com/google/jax/issues/17686

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are real example scripts used for the issue: https://github.com/google/jax/issues/17686
```

- test_runner.sh:
```
  for m in 7 8 9; do
    for d in `seq -w 1 30`; do
      docker run -v $PWD:/dir --gpus=all ghcr.io/nvidia/jax:nightly-2023-0${m}-${d} /bin/bash /dir/test.sh &> OUT-0${m}-${d}
    done
  Done
```

- test.sh:
```
  pip install jmp pyvista numpy matplotlib Rtree trimesh jmp termcolor orbax
  git clone https://github.com/Autodesk/XLB
  cd XLB
  export PYTHONPATH=.
  export CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 # only 1 GPU is needed

  python3 examples/performance/MLUPS3d.py 256 200
```

Then you can grep each output to see when the regression happens:

> `grep MLUPS OUT*`. Here is the results we got:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`grep MLUPS OUT*`. Here are the results we got:
```

OUT-08-16:MLUPS: 577.5117505070573
OUT-08-18:MLUPS: 577.5930698237612
OUT-08-19:MLUPS: 577.3539885757353
OUT-08-20:MLUPS: 577.4190113959127
OUT-08-21:MLUPS: 577.300394253605
OUT-08-22:MLUPS: 577.4263792037783
OUT-08-23:MLUPS: 577.4087536357031
OUT-08-24:MLUPS: 577.1094728438082
OUT-08-25:  File "/XLB/examples/performance/MLUPS3d.py", line 5, in <module>
OUT-08-26:MLUPS: 537.0164618489928
OUT-08-27:MLUPS: 536.9545448661609
OUT-08-28:MLUPS: 536.2887650464874
OUT-08-29:MLUPS: 536.7178471720636
OUT-08-30:MLUPS: 536.6978912984252
OUT-09-01:MLUPS: 536.7030899164106
OUT-09-04:MLUPS: 536.5339818238837
OUT-09-05:MLUPS: 536.6507808565617
OUT-09-06:MLUPS: 536.7144494518315
OUT-09-08:MLUPS: 536.7376612408998
OUT-09-09:MLUPS: 536.7798324141778
OUT-09-10:MLUPS: 536.726157440174
OUT-09-11:MLUPS: 536.7446210750584
OUT-09-12:MLUPS: 536.6707332269023
OUT-09-13:MLUPS: 536.6777936517823
OUT-09-14:MLUPS: 536.7581523280307
OUT-09-15:MLUPS: 536.6156273667873
OUT-09-16:MLUPS: 536.7320935035265
OUT-09-17:MLUPS: 536.7104991444398
OUT-09-18:MLUPS: 536.7492269469092
OUT-09-19:MLUPS: 536.6760131792959
OUT-09-20:MLUPS: 536.7361260076634
```

This found that 8-24 was good, but 8-26 was bad. On 8-25 there was

> another issue that prevented us to get results. So we need to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
another issue that prevented from getting results. So we need to
```

investigate hourly between 8-24 and 8-26. There was a smaller slowdown
earlier, lets ignore it for this example. It would be only another
hourly investigation between those dates.

## Hourly investigation.

This does a checkout of JAX and XLA at each hour between the 2 dates,

> rebuild everything and run the test.  The scripts are structured

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rebuilds everything and runs the test.  The scripts are structured
```

differently. We start the working container and keep it. Then inside

> it, we only trigger incremental XLA build except for the first

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it, we only trigger incremental XLA builds except for the first
```

build. So it is much faster after the first iteration.

- test_runner2.sh:
```
  # Execute this script inside the container:
  # docker run -v $PWD:/dir --gpus=all ghcr.io/nvidia/jax:nightly-2023-08-24 /bin/bash
  cd /opt/xla-source
  git remote update
  cd /opt/jax-source
  git remote update
  pip install jmp pyvista numpy matplotlib Rtree trimesh jmp termcolor orbax
  cd /tmp
  git clone https://github.com/Autodesk/XLB

>   cd XLB

Reviewer 2: These two lines don't seem to belong here?

Author: Here, we are doing a linear search on the nightly container.
They don't have the software we want to test nor its dependencies installed above.
The clone provide used by this line in the file test2.sh:
```python3 examples/performance/MLUPS3d.py 256 200```

I don't have an idea where to place them otherwise. If you have, please tell me.

  for d in `seq -w 24 26`; do
      for h in `seq -w 0 24`; do
          echo $m $d $h
          /bin/bash /dir/test2.sh Aug $d 2023 $h:00:00 &> OUT-08-${d}-$h
      done
  done
```

- test2.sh:
```
  echo "param: $@"
  cd /opt/xla-source
  git checkout `git rev-list -1 --before="$*" origin/main`
  git show -q
  cd /opt/jax-source
  git checkout `git rev-list -1 --before="$*" origin/main`
  git show -q

  rm /opt/jax-source/dist/jax*.whl

>   build-jax.sh

Reviewer 2: You should provide this as well

Author: That script is in our nightly container. I just added a comment about that.

  export PYTHONPATH=.
  export CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 # only 1 GPU is needed

  python3 examples/performance/MLUPS3d.py 256 200
```

Now, you can execute the grep command on the new output files to see

> between which hours the issue appeared.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which hours the issue appeared between.
```

## Final verification

> With this, you need to check the JAX and XLA history between those hours. Maybe there is a few commits to test. You can use git bisect if you want to be fancy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this, you need to check the JAX and XLA history between those hours. Maybe there are a few commits to test. You can use git bisect if you want to be fancy.
```

## Can this be improved?

Yes! If it was a crash regression, being able to do a bisect would be
useful. But it would be more complicated. If someone want to

> contribute such instruction, please submit a PR;)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contribute such instructions, please submit a PR ;)
```

> For speed regression, a bisect can hide some informtion. We wouldn't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For speed regressions, a bisect can hide some information. We wouldn't
```

> see as easily that there was two regression here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
see as easily that there were two regressions here.
```
